ProDy 0.7 Release Notes
===============================================================================

0.7.2 (Jun 21, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * :func:`.parseDCD` is implemented for parsing coordinate sets
    from DCD files.


**Improvements**:

  * :func:`.parsePDB` parses ``SEQRES`` records in header sections.

**Changes**:

  * Major classes can be instantiated without passing a name argument.
  * Default selection in NMWiz ProDy interface is changed to ensure selection
    only protein Cα atoms.


**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :func:`.writeNMD` function causing problems when writing
    a single mode is fixeed.
  * Other bugfixes in :mod:`~prody.dynamics` module functions.


0.7.1 (Apr 28, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Highlights**:

  * :class:`.Atomic` :meth:`__getattribute__` is overloaded to interpret
    atomic selections following the dot operator. For example,
    ``atoms.calpha`` is interpreted as ``atoms.select('calpha')``. See
    :ref:`` for more details.
  * :class:`.AtomGroup` class is integrated with
    :class:`.HierView` class. Atom group instances now can be indexed
    to get chains or residues and number of chains/residues can be retrieved.
    A hierarchical view is generated and updated when needed. See
    :ref:`` for more details.



**New Features**:

  * :func:`.matchAlign` is implemented for quick alignment of protein
    structures. See :ref:`extract-ligands` usage example.
  * :meth:`~.AtomGroup.setAttribute`,
    :meth:`~.AtomGroup.getAttribute`,
    :meth:`~.AtomGroup.delAttribute`, and
    :meth:`~.AtomGroup.isAttribute` functions are implemented for
    :class:`.AtomGroup` class to facilitate storing user provided
    atomic data. See :ref:`attributes` example.
  * :func:`.saveAtoms` and :func:`.loadAtoms` functions
    are implemented to allow for saving atomic data and loading it
    This saves custom atomic attributes and much faster than parsing
    data from PDB files.
  * :func:`.calcCollectivity` function is implemented to allow
    for calculating collectivity of deformation vectors.

**Improvements**:

  * :func:`.parsePDB` can optionally return biomolecule when
    ``biomol=True`` keyword argument is passed.
  * :func:`.parsePDB` can optionally make secondary structure
    assignments when ``secondary=True`` keyword argument is passed.
  * :func:`.calcSqFlucts` function is changed to accept
    :class:`.Vector` instances, e.g. deformation vectors.

**Changes**:

  * Changes were made in :func:`.calcADPAxes` function to follow
    the conventions in analysis ADPs. See its documentation.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A in :class:`.Ensemble` slicing operations is fixed. Weights are
    now copied to the new instances obtained by slicing.
  * Bug fixes in :mod:`~prody.dynamics` plotting functions
    :func:`.showScaledSqFlucts`, :func:`.showNormedSqFlucts`,

0.7 (Apr 4, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * Regular expressions can be used in atom selections. See
    :mod:`~prody.select` module for details.

  * User can define selection macros using :func:`~select.defSelectionMacro`
    function. Macros are saved in ProDy configuration and loaded in later
    sessions. See :mod:`~prody.select` module for other related functions.

  * :func:`.parseSparseMatrix` function is implemented for parsing
    matrices in sparse format. See the usage example in :ref:`external-matrix`.

  * :func:`.deform` function is implemented for deforming coordinate
    sets along a normal mode or linear combination of multiple modes.

  * :func:`.sliceModel` function is implemented for slicing normal
    mode data to be used with functions calculating atomic properties using
    normal modes.

**Improvements**:

  * Atom selections using bare keyword arguments is optimized. New keyword
    definitions are added. See :mod:`~prody.select` module for the complete
    list.

  * A new keyword argument for :func:`.calcADPAxes` allows for
    comparing largest axis to the second largest one.

**Changes**:

  * There are changes in function used to alter definitions of selection
    keywords. See :mod:`~prody.select` for details.

  * :func:`.assignSecondaryStructure` function assigns SS identifiers
    to all atoms in a residue. Residues with no SS information specified is
    assigned coil conformation.

  * When :class:`.Ensemble` and :class:`.NMA` classes are
    instantiated with an empty string, instances are called "Unnamed".

  * :func:`.sliceMode`, :func:`.sliceVector` and
    :func:`.reduceModel` functions return the atom selection
    in addition to the sliced vector/mode/model instance.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * Default selection for :func:`.calcGNM` function is set to
    "calpha".

:ref:`nmwiz`
^^^^^^^^^^^^

**New Features**:

  * NMWiz supports GNM data and can use ProDy for GNM calculations.

  * NMWiz can gather normal mode data from molecules loaded into VMD.
    This allows NMWiz to support all formats supported by VMD.

  * User can write data loaded into NMWiz in NMD format.

  * An Arrow Graphics option allows the user to draw arrows in both directions.

  * User can select Licorice representation for the protein if model is an
    all atom mode.

  * User can select Custom as the representation of the protein to prevent
    NMWiz from chancing a user set representation.

  * Trace is added as a protein backbone representation option.

**Improvements**:

  * NMWiz remembers all adjustments on arrow graphics for all modes.

  * Plotting :guilabel:`Clear` button clears only atom labels that are
    associated with the dataset.

  * Removing a dataset removes all associated molecule objects.

  * Selected atom representations are turned on based on atom index.

  * Padding around interface button has been standardized to provide a uniform
    experience between different platforms.