ProDy 1.9 Series
===============================================================================

.. contents::
   :local:

1.9.5 (Apr 30, 2018)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

*Visualization*

  * Added :func:`.showAtomicLines` and :func:`.showAtomicMatrix` functions to 
  improve visualization.

  * Added an *networkx* option to :func:`.showTree` so that the user can choose 
  to use :module:`~networkx` to visualize a given tree.

*Signature Dynamics*

  * Added :func:`.calcEnsembleENMs` to compute ENMs on each conformation of a 
  given ensemble to obtain an ensemble of modes.

  * Added :class:`.ModeEnsemble` and :class:`.sdarray` classes as the basic 
  data types for signature dynamics.

  * Added functions such as :func:`.calcSignatureSqFlucts`, 
  :func:`.calcSignatureCrossCorr`, :func:`.calcSignatureFractVariance` to 
  extract signature dynamics.

  * Added :func:`.calcEnsembleSpectralOverlaps` to obtain dynamical 
  overlaps/distances among the conformations in a given ensemble.

*Ensemble and PDBEnsemble*

  * Associated an :class:`.MSA` object to the :class:`.PDBEnsemble` class.

  * Added an *pairwise* option to :method:`.Ensemble.getRMSDs` to obtain an 
  RMSD table of every pair of conformations in the ensemble.

  * Improved :method:`.Ensemble.setAtoms` for selecting a subset of 
  residues/atoms of the ensemble.

*Databases and Web Services*

  * Added methods and classes for obtaining data from *CATH* and *Dali*.
  
  * Added additional functions for *Uniprot* and *Pfam* such as 
  :func:`.queryUniprot` and :func:`.parsePfamPDBs`.

*Bug Fixes and Improvement*

  * Fixed compatibility problems for Python 2 and 3.

  * Improved the :func:`.saveModel` function to include class-specific features.

  * Fixed a bug related to the :class:`.Atomgroup` addition method.

  * Bug fixes to :class:`.NMA` classes.

  * Fixed a problem with :class:`.MSA` indexing.

  * Other bug fixes.

1.9.4 (Feb 02, 2018)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Undocumented release and fixes. 

1.9.3 (Oct 09, 2017)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Bugfixes*

  * Bug fix about http and ftp based pdb downloads. 

  * Bug fixes in PRS calculations. 

1.9.2 (Aug 29, 2017)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

** New Features**:

*Migration to pypi.org*

  * All repositories are moved to pypi.org


1.9.1 (Aug 18, 2017)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

** New Features**:

*PDB Secondary Structures*

  * It is possible to write secondary structure infrmation to PDBs. 

*Bugfixes*

  * Fixed the problem about clang compiler for saxs tools.

  * If FTP client is not working, HTTP client will be used when downloading PDBs.

1.9 (May 23, 2017)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

*Perturbation Response Scanning*

  * Perturbation Response Scanning method is fully implemented with 
    new plotting tools. 

  * Effectors and sensors are calculated from PRS tool. 

*Visualization with py3Dmol*

  * In jupyter notebook, if you have installed py3Dmol you can use
  py3Dmol visualization directly instead of simple matplotlib 
  visualization. 

*mmcif parser*

  * Another structural format cif is also a part of ProDy parser now. 

*Bugfixes*

  * Various indexing issues are fixed. 

  * Some of the obsolete pdbs will not be downloaded anymore, instead
  replaced pdbs will be downloaded. This will change the priority 
  between ftp and http servers.  


