ProDy 0.8 Release Notes
===============================================================================

0.8.3 (Oct 16, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * Functions to read and write PQR files: :func:`.parsePQR` and
    :func:`.writePQR`.

  * Added :meth:`.PDBEnsemble.getIdentifiers` method that returns
    identifiers of all conformations in the ensemble.

  * ProDy tests are incorporated to the package installer.  If you are using
    Python version 2.7, you can run the tests by calling ``prody.test()``.


**Improvements**:

  * :func:`.blastPDB` function and :class:`.PDBBlastRecord`
    class are rewritten to use faster and more compact code.

  * New :class:`.PackageLogger` function is implemented to unify logging
    and reporting task progression.

  * Improvements in PDB ensemble support functions, e.g.
    :func:`.trimPDBEnsemble`, are made.

  * Improvements in ensemble concatenations are made.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * Bugfixes in :func:`.PDBEnsemble` slicing operation.  This may
    have affected users when slicing a PDB ensemble for plotting projections
    in color for different forms of the protein.

0.8.2 (Oct 14, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * :func:`.fetchPDBClusters`, :func:`.loadPDBClusters`, and
    :func:`.getPDBCluster` functions are implemented for handling
    PDB sequence cluster data. These functions can be used instead of
    :func:`.blastPDB` function for fast access to structures of
    the same protein (at 95% sequence identity level) or similar proteins.

  * Perturbation response scanning method described in [CA09]_ is implemented
    as :func:`.scanPerturbationResponse` based on the code provided
    by Ying Liu.


**Changes**:

  * :func:`.fetchPDBLigand` returns the URL of the XML file in the ligand data
    dictionary.

  * Name of the ProDy configuration file in user :file:`home` directory
    is renamed as :file:`.prodyrc` (used to be :file:`.prody`).

  * :func:`.applyBiomolecularTransformations` and
    :func:`.assignSecondaryStructure` functions raise
    :class:`ValueError` when the function fails to perform its action
    due to missing data in header dictionary.

  * :func:`.fetchPDB` decompresses PDB files found in the working
    directory when user asks for decompressed files.

  * :func:`.parsePDB` appends *chain* and *subset* arguments to
    :func:`.AtomGroup` name.

  * *chain* argument is added to :meth:`.PDBBlastRecord.getHits`.

**Improvements**:

  * Atom selection class :class:`.Select` is completely redesigned
    to prevent breaking of the parser when evaluating invalid selection
    strings.

  * Improved type checking in :func:`.parsePDB` function.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * Bugfixes in :func:`.parseDSSP`: one emerged problems in lines
    indicating chain breaks, another did not parse bridge-partners correctly.
    Both fixes are contributed by Kian Ho.

  * Bugfix in :func:`.parsePDB` function. When only header is desired
    (``header=True, model=0``), would return a tuple containing an empty
    atom group and the header.

**Developmental**:

  * Unit tests for :mod:`.proteins` and :mod:`~.prody.select` modules are
    developed.

0.8.1 (Sep 16, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * :func:`.fetchLigandData` is implemented for fetching ligand data from
    Ligand Expo.

  * :func:`.parsePSF` function is implemented for parsing X-PLOR format PSF
    files.

**Changes**:

  * __slots__ is used in :class:`.AtomGroup` and :class:`.Atomic`
    classes. This change prevents user from assigning new variables to
    instances of all classes derived from the base :class:`.Atomic`.

  * :mod:`pyparsing` is updated to version 1.5.6.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :meth:`.AtomGroup.copy` method is fixed. When AtomGroup
    instance itself is copied, deep copies of data arrays were not made.

  * A bug in :class:`.Select` class raising exceptions when negative
    residue number values are present is fixed.

  * Another bug in :class:`.Select` class misinterpreting
    ``same residue as ...`` statement when specific chains are involved is
    fixed.

  * A bug in :meth:`.AtomGroup.addCoordset` method duplicating coordinates
    when no coordinate sets are present in the instance is fixed.

:ref:`nmwiz`
^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Changes**:

  * Version number in main window is iterated.

  * Mode graphics material is stored for individual modes.

  * Mode scaling factor is printed when active mode or RMSD is changed.

  * All selections are deleted to avoid memory leaks.


0.8 (Aug 24, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::
   After installing v0.8, you may need to make a small change in your
   existing scripts. If you are using :class:`.Ensemble` class
   for analyzing PDB structures, rename it as :class:`.PDBEnsemble`.
   See the other changes that may affect your work below and the class
   documentation for more information.


**New Features**:

  * :class:`.DCDFile` is implemented for handling DCD files.

  * :class:`.Trajectory` is implemented for handling multiple
    trajectory files.

  * :func:`.writeDCD` is implemented for writing DCD files.

  * :ref:`trajectory` example to illustrate usage of new classes for handling
    DCD files. :ref:`eda` example is updated to use new ProDy classes.

  * :class:`.PCA` supports :class:`.Trajectory` and
    :class:`.DCDFile` instances.

  * :class:`.Ensemble` and :class:`.PDBEnsemble` classes
    can be associated with :class:`.AtomGroup` instances. This allows
    selecting and evaluating coordinates of subset of atoms. See
    :meth:`~.EnsembleBase.setAtomGroup`,
    :meth:`~.EnsembleBase.select`,
    :meth:`~.EnsembleBase.getAtomGroup`, and
    :meth:`~.EnsembleBase.getSelection` methods.

  * :func:`.execDSSP`, :func:`.parseDSSP`, and :func:`.performDSSP` functions
    are implemented for executing and parsing DSSP calculations.

  * :func:`.execSTRIDE`, :func:`.parseSTRIDE`, and :func:`.performSTRIDE`
    functions are implemented for executing and parsing DSSP calculations.

  * :func:`.parsePDB` function parses atom serial numbers. Atoms
    can be retrieved from an :class:`.AtomGroup` instance by their
    serial numbers using :meth:`~.AtomGroup.getBySerial` and
    :meth:`~.AtomGroup.getBySerialRange` methods.

  * :func:`.calcADPs` function can be used to calculate anisotropic
    displacement parameters for atoms with anisotropic temperature factor
    data.

  * :meth:`~.Ensemble.getRMSFs` is implemented for calculating
    root mean square fluctuations.

  * :class:`.AtomGroup` and :class:`.Mode` or
    :class:`.Vector` additions are supported. This adds a new
    coordinate set to the :class:`.AtomGroup` instance.

  * :meth:`~.AtomGroup.getAttrNames` is implemented for listing
    user set attribute names.


**Improvements**:

  * :func:`.calcProjection`, :func:`.showProjection`, and
    :func:`.showCrossProjection` functions can optionally calculate/display
    RMSD along the normal mode.

  * ANM, GNM, and PCA applications can optionally write compressed ProDy data
    files.

  * :func:`.fetchPDB` function can optionally write decompressed
    files and force copying a file from local mirror to target folder.

  * :meth:`.PCA.buildCovariance` and :meth:`.PCA.performSVD`
    methods accept Numpy arrays as coordinate sets.

  * Performance of :meth:`.PCA.buildCovariance` method is optimized
    for evaluation of PDB ensembles.

  * :func:`.calcRMSD` and :func:`.superpose` functions are optimized for speed
    and memory usage.

  * :meth:`.Ensemble.getMSFs` is optimized for speed and memory usage.

  * Improvements in memory operations in :mod:`~prody.atomic`,
    :mod:`~prody.ensemble`, and :mod:`~prody.dynamics` modules for
    faster data (PDB/NMD) output.

  * Optimizations in :class:`.Select` and :class:`.Contacts` classes.

**Changes**:

  * :class:`.Ensemble` does not store conformation names. Instead,
    newly implemented :class:`.PDBEnsemble` class stores identifiers
    for individual conformations (PDB IDs). This class should be used in cases
    where source of individual conformations is important.

  * :func:`.calcProjection`, :func:`.showProjection`, and
    :func:`.showCrossProjection` function calculate/display
    root mean square deviations, by default.

  * Oxidized cysteine residue abbreviation ``CSO`` is added to the definition
    of ``protein`` keyword.

  * :meth:`getMSF` method is renamed as :meth:`~.Ensemble.getMSFs`.

  * :func:`.parseDCD` function returns :class:`.Ensemble`
    instances.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :mod:`~atomic.select` module causing exceptions when regular
    expressions are used is fixed.

  * Another bug in :mod:`~atomic.select` module raising exception when
    "(not ..," is passed is fixed.

  * Various bugfixes in :mod:`~prody.ensemble` module.

  * Problem in :program:`prody fetch` that occurred when a file is found in a
    local mirror is fixed.

  * Bugfix in :meth:`.AtomPointer.copy` method.

:ref:`nmwiz`
^^^^^^^^^^^^

**New Features**:

  * NMWiz can be used to compare two structures by calculating and depicting
    structural changes.

  * Arrow graphics is scaled based on a user specified RMSD value.

**Improvements**:

  * NMWiz writes DCD format trajectories for PCA using ProDy. This provides
    significant speed up in cases where IO rate is the bottleneck.

**Changes**:

  * Help is provided in a text window to provide a cleaner GUI.