ProDy 0.5 Series
===============================================================================

0.5.3 (Feb 11, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * Membership, equality, and non-equality test operation are defined for all
    :mod:`~prody.atomic` classes. See :ref:`selection-operations`.

  * Two functions are implemented for dealing with anisotropic temperature
    factors: :func:`.calcADPAxes` and :func:`.buildADPMatrix`.

  * :meth:`.NMA.setEigens` and :meth:`.NMA.addEigenpair` methods are
    implemented to assist analysis of normal modes calculated using
    external software.

  * :func:`.parseNMD` is implemented for parsing NMD files.

  * :func:`.parseModes` is implemented for parsing normal mode data.

  * :func:`.parseArray` is implementing for reading numeric data, particularly
    normal mode data calculated using other software for analysis using ProDy.

  * The method in [BH02]_ to calculate overlap between covariance matrices is
    implemented as :func:`.calcCovOverlap` function.

  * :func:`.trimEnsemble` to trim :class:`.Ensemble` instances is implemented.

  * :func:`.checkUpdates` to check for ProDy updates is implemented.

**Changes**:

  * Change in default behavior of :func:`.parsePDB` function. When
    alternate locations exist, those indicated by A are parsed. For parsing
    all alternate locations user needs to pass ``altloc=True`` argument.

  * :func:`getSumOfWeights` is renamed as :func:`.calcSumOfWeights`.

  * :func:`mapAtomsToChain` is renamed as :func:`.mapOntoChain`.

  * :func:`ProDyStartLogFile` is renamed as :func:`.startLogfile`.

  * :func:`ProDyCloseLogFile` is renamed as :func:`.closeLogfile`.

  * :func:`ProDySetVerbosity` is renamed as :func:`.changeVerbosity`.

**Improvements**:

  * A few bugs in ensemble and dynamics classes are fixed.

  * Improvements in :class:`RCSB_PDBFetcher` allow it not to miss a
    PDB file if it exists in the target folder.

  * :func:`.writeNMD` is fixed to output B-factors (Thanks to Dan Holloway for
    pointing it out).

0.5.2 (Jan 12, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Bug Fixes**:

  * An important fix in :func:`.sampleModes` function was made
    (Thanks to Alberto Perez for finding the bug and suggesting a solution).

**Improvements**:

  * Improvements in :meth:`.ANM.calcModes`, :meth:`.GNM.calcModes`,
    and :meth:`.PCA.calcModes` methods prevent Numpy/Scipy throwing an
    exception when more than available modes are requested by the user.

  * Improvements in :func:`.blastPDB` enable ProDy throw an exception when no
    internet connection is found, and warn user when downloads fail due to
    restriction in network regulations (Thanks to Serkan Apaydin for helping
    identify these improvements).

  * New example :ref:`writepdb`.

0.5.1 (Dec 31, 2010)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Changes in dependencies**:

* Scipy (linear algebra module) is not required package anymore.  When
  available it replaces Numpy (linear algebra module) for greater flexibility
  and efficiency. A warning message is printed when Scipy is not found.

* Biopython KDTree module is not required for ENM calculations (specifically
  for building Hessian (ANM) or Kirchoff (GNM) matrices). When available it
  is used to increase the performance. A warning message is printed when
  KDTree is not found.

0.5 (Dec 21, 2010)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * :class:`.AtomPointer` base class for classes pointing to
    atoms in an :class:`.AtomGroup`.

  * :class:`.AtomPointer` instances (Selection, Residue, etc.)
    can be added. See :ref:`selection-operations` for examples.

  * :meth:`.Select.getIndices` and :meth:`.Select.getBoolArray`
    methods to expand the usage of :class:`.Select`.

  * :func:`.sliceVector` and :func:`.sliceMode` functions.

  * :func:`.saveModel` and :func:`.loadModel` functions
    for saving and loading NMA data.

  * :func:`.parsePDBStream` can now parse specific chains or
    alternate locations from a PDB file.

  * :func:`.alignCoordsets` is implemented to superimpose
    coordinate sets of an :class:`.AtomGroup` instance.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :func:`.parsePDBStream` that caused unidentified errors
    when a model in a multiple model file did not have the same number of
    atoms is fixed.

**Changes**:

  * Iterating over a :class:`.Chain` instance yields :class:`.Residue`
    instances.

  * :class:`.Vector` instantiation requires an *array* only. *name*
    is an optional argument.

  * Functions starting with ``get`` and performing a calculations are renamed
    to start with ``calc``, e.g. :func:`getRMSD` is now :func:`.calcRMSD`.