ProDy 0.6 Series
===============================================================================

0.6.2 (Mar 16, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * :meth:`~.PCA.performSVD` function is implemented for faster
    and more memory efficient principal compoment analysis.

  * :func:`.extrapolateModel` function is implemented for
    extrapolating a coarse-grained model to an all atom model. See the
    usage example :ref:`extendmodel`.

  * :func:`plog` is implemented for enabling users to make log entries.

**Improvements**:

  * :mod:`~prody.compare` functions are improved to handle insertion codes.

  * :class:`.HierView` allows for indexing using chain identifier
    and residue numbers. See usage example :ref:`hierview`.

  * :class:`.Chain` allows for indexing using residue number and
    insertion code. See usage example :ref:`hierview`.

  * :meth:`~.AtomGroup.addCoordset` function accepts
    :class:`.Atomic` and :class:`.Ensemble` instances
    as *coords* argument.

  * New method :meth:`.HierView.getAtoms` is implemented.
  * :class:`.AtomGroup` set functions check the correctness of
    dimension of data arrays to prevent runtime problems.

  * :program:`prody pca` script is updated to use the faster PCA method
    that uses SVD.

**Changes**:

  * "backbone" definition now includes the backbone hydrogen atom
    (Thanks to Nahren Mascarenhas for pointing to this discrepancy in the
    keyword definition).

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :class:`.PCA` allowed calculating covariance matrix
    for less than 3 coordinate sets is fixed.

  * A bug in :func:`.mapOntoChain` function that caused problems
    when mapping all atoms is fixed.



0.6.1 (Mar 2, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * :func:`.setWWPDBFTPServer` and :func:`.getWWPDBFTPServer`
    functions allow user to change or learn the WWPDB FTP server that ProDy
    uses to download PDB files. Default server is RCSB PDB in USA.
    User can change the default server to one in Europe or Japan.

  * :func:`.setPDBMirrorPath` and :func:`.getPDBMirrorPath`
    functions allow user to specify or learn the path to a local PDB mirror.
    When specified, a local PDB mirror is preferred for accessing PDB files,
    over downloading them from FTP servers.

  * :func:`.mapOntoChain` function is improved to map backbone or
    all atoms.

**Improvements**:

  * :class:`WWPDB_PDBFetcher` can download PDB files from different
    WWPDB FTP servers.

  * :class:`WWPDB_PDBFetcher` can also use local PDB mirrors for
    accessing PDB files.

**Changes**:

  * :class:`RCSB_PDBFetcher` is renamed as :class:`WWPDB_PDBFetcher`.

  * :func:`.mapOntoChain` and :func:`.matchChains` functions
    accept ``"ca"`` and ``"bb"`` as *subset* arguments.

  * Definition of selection keyword "protein" is updated to include
    some non-standard amino acid abbreviations.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :class:`WWPDB_PDBFetcher` causing exceptions when
    non-string items passed in a list is fixed.

  * An important bug in :func:`.parsePDB` is fixed. When parsing
    backbone or Cα atoms, residue names were not checked and this caused
    parsing water atoms with name ``"O"`` or calcium ions with name ``"CA"``.


0.6 (Feb 22, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**New Features**:

  * Biopython module pairwise2 and packages KDTree and Blast are incorporated
    in ProDy package to make installation easier. Only NumPy needs to be
    installed before ProDy can be used. For plotting, Matplotlib is still
    required.

  * :ref:`nmwiz` is distributed with ProDy source. On Linux, if VMD is
    installed, ProDy installer locates VMD plugins folder and installs NMWiz.
    On Windows, user needs to follow a separate set of instructions (see
    :ref:`nmwiz`).

  * :class:`.Gamma` class is implemented for facilitating use of
    force constants based on atom type, residue type, or property. An
    example derived classes are :class:`.GammaStructureBased` and
    :class:`.GammaVariableCutoff`.

  * :func:`.calcTempFactors` function is implemented to
    calculate theoretical temperature factors.

  * 5 new :ref:`prody-apps` are implemented, and existing scripts are improved to
    output figures.

  * :meth:`~.NMA.getModel` method is implemented to make function development
    easier.

  * :func:`.resetTicks` function is implemented to change X and/or Y
    axis ticks in plots when there are discontinuities in the plotted data.

**Improvements**:

  * :meth:`.ANM.buildHessian` and :meth:`.GNM.buildKirchhoff`
    classes are improved to accept :class:`.Gamma` instances
    or other custom function as *gamma* argument. See also :ref:`gamma`.

  * :class:`.Select` class is changed to treat single word keywords
    differently, e.g. "backbone" or "protein".
    They are interpreted 10 times faster and in use achieve much higher
    speed-ups when compared to composite selections. For example, using the
    keyword "calpha" instead of the ``name CA and protein``,
    which returns the same selection, works >20 times faster.

  * Optimizations in :class:`~select.Select` class to increase
    performance (Thanks to Paul McGuire for providing several Pythonic tips
    and Pyparsing specific advice).

  * :func:`.applyBiomolecularTransformations` function is improved
    to handle large biomolecular assemblies.

  * Performance optimizations in :func:`.parsePDB` and other functions.

  * :class:`.Ensemble` class accepts :class:`.Atomic` instances and
    automatically adds coordinate sets to the ensemble.

**Changes**:

  * :class:`PDBlastRecord` is renamed as :class:`.PDBBlastRecord`.

  * :class:`.NMA` instances can be index using a list or tuple of integers,
    e.g. ``anm[1,3,5]``.

  * "ca", "bb", and "sc" keywords are defined as short-hands for "calpha",
    "backbone", and "sidechain", respectively.

  * Behavior of :func:`.calcANM` and :func:`.calcGNM` functions have changed.
    They return the atoms used for calculation as well.

**Bug Fixes**:

  * A bug in :func:`.assignSecondaryStructure` function is fixed.

  * Bug fixes in :ref:`prody-anm` and :ref:`prody-gnm`.

  * Bug fixes in :func:`.showSqFlucts` and :func:`.showProjection` functions.

:ref:`nmwiz`
^^^^^^^^^^^^

  * NMWiz can be used as a graphical interface to ProDy. ANM or PCA
    calculations can be performed for molecules that are loaded in VMD.

  * User can set default color for arrow graphics and paths to ANM and PCA
    scripts.

  * Optionally, NMWiz can preserve the current view in VMD display window when
    loading a new dataset. Check the box in the NMWiz GUI main window.

  * A bug that prevented selecting residues from plot window is fixed.