ProDy 1.1 Series
===============================================================================

1.1 (June 1, 2012)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


**New Features**:

  * :func:`.iterFragments` function is added.

  * :func:`.findNeighbors` function is added.

  * :func:`.calcMSF` and :func:`.calcRMSF` functions are added.

  * :func:`.wrapAtoms` functions is added.

  * :func:`.extendMode` and :func:`.extendVector` functions are added.

  * :ref:`prody-contacts` command is added.

**Improvements**:

  * :func:`.moveAtoms` function is improved to move atoms to a specified
    location.

  * :class:`.DCDFile` and :func:`.parseDCD` take *astype* keyword argument for
    automatic type recasting for coordinate arrays.  This option can be used
    to convert 32-bit coordinate arrays to 64-bit automatically for higher
    precision calculations.

  * Commands :ref:`prody-anm`, :ref:`prody-gnm`, and :ref:`prody-pca` can
    extend a coarse grained model to backbone or all atoms of the residues.
    See their documentation pages.

**Changes**:

  * Color scale used by :func:`.showOverlapTable` is normalized by default.

  * :mod:`.tools` module is depracated for removal, use :mod:`.utilities`
    instead.

  * *array* argument in :func:`.moveAtoms` is replaced with *by* keyword
    argument.

  * *which* argument in :meth:`.AtomGroup.copy` method is deprecated for
    removal in version 1.2.

  * :class:`.DCDFile` does not log information for most common type of DCD
    file, i.e. 32-bit CHARMM format.

  * :meth:`.Trajectory.getNextIndex` method is deprecated for removal in v1.2,
    use :meth:`~.Trajectory.nextIndex` instead.

**Bugfixes**:

  * Fixed several problems in :func:`.iterNeighbors` function and
    :class:`.Contacts` class that were introduced after transition to new
    :class:`.KDTree` interface.

  * Fixed a problem in setting selection strings of fragments identified using
    :func:`.findFragments`.

  * Fixed a problem in :func:`.calcCenter` related to weighted center
    calculation.

  * Fixed a problem of in copying :class:`.AtomMap` instances, which would
    emerge when bond information was present in unusual mappings, such as
    when atom orders are changed or an atom is present multiple times in the
    mapping.

:ref:`nmwiz`
^^^^^^^^^^^^

**Improvements**:

  * Mode scaling options are improved.

  * Options added for extending coarse grained NMA models to residue backbone
    or all atoms.


